Game Gong Zhu

Introduction
Players, Cards and Deal
The Play
Values of Cards
Exposing Cards
Scoring
Variations

#Introduction
This is a Chinese version of Hearts, which was taught to me by Guo Juan. It is popular with Chinese Weiqi (Go) players when relaxing between tournament games.

An approximate English translation of the name of the game is Chase the Pig: zhu means pig or boar and gong is to root out, or force out of hiding. In the game, the queen of spades is a penalty card, known as the pig - players may try to drive out the pig by leading spades; also the loser of the game is known as the pig, and may be required to grovel under the table as a penalty.

#Players, Cards and Deal
The game is for four players using a standard 52 card pack. The cards in each suit rank from high to low: A K Q J 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2. Four can play as individuals or as partners - partners sit opposite. When 5 play it is necessary to take out two cards - the twos of clubs and diamonds. At the beginning of the hand all the cards are dealt out equally to the players. Unlike in Western Hearts, there is no passing of cards. Everyone plays with the cards they are dealt.

Deal and play are anticlockwise. As usual in Chinese games the cards are not actually dealt out by a dealer: instead the deck is stacked face down and each player in turn takes a card from the top of the pile until all the cards have been taken.

#The Play
The play is in tricks. There are no trumps. In the first hand the holder of the two of spades leads to the first trick; in subsequent hands, the player who took the pig (queen of spades) on the previous hand leads to the first trick.

Any card may be led (there is no restriction on leading hearts or spades). Players must follow suit if possible. If you cannot follow suit you may play any card. The trick is won by the highest card of the suit led. The winner of a trick leads to the next.

#Values of cards
The object is to take or avoid taking in tricks particular cards which carry a penalty or bonus to the person who wins them. The scoring cards are as follows:

Card	Score
Queen of spades (pig)	-100
Ace of hearts	-50
King of hearts	-40
Queen of hearts	-30
Jack of hearts	-20
10 of hearts -10
9 of hearts	-9
8 of hearts	-8
7 of hearts	-7
6 of hearts	-6
5 of hearts	-5
4 of hearts	-4
3 of hearts	-3
2 of hearts	-2
Jack of diamonds (sheep) +100

In addition the ten of clubs counts +50 if the player who takes it takes no other scoring cards. If the player does take other scoring cards, the ten of clubs counts nothing in itself, but doubles the value of all other scoring cards taken by that player.

If one player takes all the hearts, they score +194 instead of -194 and if a player takes all the hearts and the pig as well, then the score for the pig becomes +100, making a total of +294. The sheep (jack of diamonds) is still worth a further +100 to a player who takes all the hearts. But if The sheep (jack of diamonds) is taken by another player, then the value of the sheep is -100 instead of +100.
If one player takes all the hearts, take jack of diamond, take queen of spade and ten of clubs, then the score is +1000 for that turn.
During the play, the hearts, pig, sheep and ten of clubs are kept face up in front of the players who take them in tricks. All the other cards played to tricks are turned face down when the trick is complete, and are kept in a single heap.

#Exposing cards
There are four cards which may be exposed by their holders before the start of play: ace of hearts, queen of spades, jack of diamonds, ten of clubs.

If you lead the suit of your exposed card yourself, and the suit has not been led before, then you must not lead the exposed card itself unless it is the only card you have in that suit.

#Scoring
Keep a cumulative total of each player's score - positive or negative. When a player reaches minus 1000 points (target points) they have lost, and a new game is started. The penalty for losing is that you are a pig; you are given a long narrow strip of paper and you must put one end in your mouth; the strip of paper hangs there until someone else loses a game, at which time you can give it to them. On the other hand, if you lose again, you get another strip of paper to hang from your mouth.

In addition, as previously mentioned, the loser may also be required to grovel under the table.